# Agent Instance

At a general level, agents are responsible for carrying out tasks for remote
users. They can connect over the network to any other type of instance. At
minimum, agents must be associated with one server.

## Instance Configuration

```py
# com.sandpolis.core.agent
{
  "network" : {
    "servers" : String(),
    "timeout" : Number(), # The server connection timeout in milliseconds
    "strict_certs" : Boolean(), # The agent will refuse to connect to a server that presents an invalid certificate
    "polling_interval" : Number(), # The connection poll interval in milliseconds
  }
}
```

## Connection Modes

There are two connection modes that have an impact on performance and latency.

### Continuous

In continuous mode, the agent maintains its primary connection at all times. If
the connection is lost, the agent will periodically attempt to reestablish the
connection using the same parameters it used to establish the initial
connection.

The connection mode can be changed on-the-fly by a user or scheduled to change
automatically according to the time and day.

### Polling

In polling mode, the agent intentionally closes the primary connection unless
there exists an active stream. On a configurable schedule, the agent reconnects
to a server, flushes any cached data, and checks for any new work items. After
executing all available work items, the primary connection is closed again.

The agent may attempt a spontaneous connection outside of the regular schedule
if an internal agent process triggers it.

## Plugins

Agents can optionally support plugins to enhance functionality beyond the
standard feature set. Upon initial connection, the agent provides a list of
plugin versions that it has loaded. The server responds with a list of plugin
archives that the agent should install.

## Standard Feature Set

The standard feature set is the minimum amount of functionality an agent
implementation must provide.

### AgentMetadata

## Upgrades

There are two ways to upgrade the agent:

-   automatically by sending the update command to the server,
-   manually by generating a new installer and executing it on the agent

### Manual Upgrade

A manual upgrade is triggered when an installer is executed on the agent and the
relevant base directory is already populated with an installation. If the agent
is not running, the installer will overwrite the base directory and install
itself. Any data that the agent has cached but not sent to the server will be
lost!

Advantages

-   This is the only way to upgrade if the agent can no longer connect to the
    server

Disadvantages

-   Manual intervention required
-   Cached data may be lost

### Automated Upgrade

If the agent is connected to a server, it can be upgraded remotely. This will
cause the server to fetch the agent configuration, generate a new installer, and
transfer it to the agent. The agent then executes the new installer and
terminates.

### Container Resident

## Boot Agent

Several boot agent operations are accessible from typical agents.

### Installation

Typical agent instances are capable of installing a boot agent on their host
machine if installed with sufficient permissions. Write access to the `EFI`
directory on the ESP partition is required for installation and uninstallation.

The boot agent artifact is a standard `.efi` file generated by a server
instance. The agent simply copies the file to the ESP partition at
`/EFI/Boot/S7Sx64.efi`.

### Uninstallation

To uninstall, an agent must simply delete the boot agent from the ESP partition.

### Reboot into boot agent

Agents can launch the boot agent indirectly by setting the `BootNext` variable
to the index of the boot agent's EFI entry and rebooting the machine.
